Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture just want to talk a little bit about a technique
that is almost never used and it always drives me crazy.
It's something that can really help you get a lot more bids for your projects.
Every single system that we've covered in this course allows you the option to kind of turn this whole
process upside down as opposed to posting a job profile and having someone find it and then send you
a proposal.
You can actually go and look for specific freelancers you think look interesting or look like a good
fit and send them a message.
So each one handles it a little bit differently.
It's definitely something you should take advantage of.
A lot of people don't do it because they think it's going to be onerous or it's going to take too much
time.
I'm telling you right now that's not really the case.
Here's how I do it whenever I post a job.
I'll just open up a separate document.
And all right a quick message and I'll make this generic.
This is what I'm going to send to the freelancer.
I'd just generally say hey I was looking at your profile and you would be a good fit for my project.
And then I can give some basic information about my project my project for
you.
And you have similar skills for you if you're interested.
And just let me hope to see you in the project judge something along those lines really it just needs
to be generic.
The idea is that you going to look for people who have the same skill sets that you want and then say
something that makes it appear as if you really looked in-depth at their profile.
That's going to increase the chance chances are the likelihood that they're going to bid on your project.
Really this is enough to get you know if you send 30 messages you'll get 20 bids Unless of course you're
an freelancer.
In that case maybe you only get 10 but that's a significant amount of interest.
It's also going to increase the quality of your proposals because the people who get a message from
you who come to your project and bid they think they already have a leg up so they're going to spend
a little bit more time on your project.
So the way that I just go about doing it is I just copy it.
So each one of them is a little bit different on elance as you can see right here for a page we made
before on a page we made before.
Here is invited and you can see that I took advantage of this for a project that we were building before
for a client.
And as you can see over here I sent 28 invitations six accepted 14 declined.
That's pretty good.
That means I got six bids out of the Tony I sent.
After you create a project on e Leonce what it does is it's automatically going to populate a list of
people that have the skill sets that you set up in your project page.
And then with one button you can invite Twenty four people or something like that.
L.A. is going to limit you to messaging 30 people a day.
So what you can do is just set an alarm and come back the next day 24 hours after you post it and just
keep doing this until you get someone that you're really happy with.
Now obviously keep in mind we have those other techniques for figuring out what's a good bid and what's
not a good bid.
So you can quickly get rid of the ones that are junk and move through them more quickly.
Otherwise if you invite 100 people you might get 80 bids and that might be overwhelming.
So really all you do is you hire search freelancers.
So right off the bat it just gives you a generic one over here.
This is where you need to get detailed though you need to pick exactly what you want.
You know if I'm building an iOS application I might pick my category is I.T. programming then I can
pick my country and I can pick my skills.
David you also suffer here a number of reviews people who don't have enough reviews means they haven't
been on the system long enough feedback same thing.
You're going to go for people who are higher rated typically don't mess with these hourly rate is worth
doing it.
If you're very specific about that we can get very specific to what we think we need.
Maybe I want only want an individual we want an individual who's an I.T. in programming.
I only want them in or pick a region let's say Eastern Europe and then I can say with specific skills
in Iowa us so we can just say is development.
There we go.
OK.
Now I have a pretty good list of people.
OK now I have a pretty good list of people.
All I have to do is go through and click hire me.
And then what will happen is if I have a job posting that's active I'll just it says you invite them
to a job.
You invite them to a job you continue and the next message will ask you to send them a private message.
That's right.
Copy and paste the message.
You can actually get a virtual assistant do this for you every single day and only cost you 50 cents
a day.
It's funny you can actually use Elance or oDesk or up works or to actually go and hire someone to do
this for you.
So in freelancer it's a little bit different.
You just go to hire freelancers and then you go to browse directory.
It works in a very similar way because then after that we're going to look at the criteria they use
to narrow down the list.
Over here you can pick your country you can look for keywords you can pick exams they've passed things
like that it doesn't let you get too much in depth.
So then what you would do is instead of cooking hire me because this will ask you to create a private
project you actually click their name once you're actually into their page over here instead of getting
a higher mean you just drop this down.
You say invite the project.
So then I have a fake project I put up I can invite.
So after you had invited asks you to send a message and you're all set.
So just go through as many as you can.
They're going to limit you again.
I think it's to 50 a day which is more than you would ever need.
All right on up work you just go to freelancers and you're going to find freelancers.
And then here you can search for specific skills or countries or you can go through a broader category.
So maybe I'm looking for again an Iowa developer.
So we'll get a mobile development.
Okay.
And then right off the bat we can see here it populates the list and I can get more specific how much
experience do I want.
How much feedback do I want.
I can also pick pretty much everything that we've seen in the other one so uses get very specific invite
as many people as you can.
If you're not getting a bids that you like keep inviting people there's no reason not to max out this
option whenever you can.
Honestly this is one of the better things that will help you throughout this entire process and you
can use this with a lot of different platforms.
They open this up to you.
Not enough people take advantage of it.
It's really really simple.
If you just write a template message it'll dramatically increase your bid rate the total amount of bids
and it'll dramatically increase the chance that you find someone that you really want to work with.
So I will see you guys in the next lecture.